Welcome, in this video, we're going to start off our social coding
by forking an existing repository. I'm currently logged into GitHub,
and I'm on the "website" repository. To show you where I'm going, I have another browser
that's currently on the "starter-web" of the "scm-ninja" organization in GitHub.
This is the repository that we are going to fork
and make available on our personal space on GitHub.
So, now I'm going to return to my main browser,
and to set our bearings I'm going to click on my username
and that takes me to my newsfeed page.
And, I currently only have two repositories, which is my demo and my website.
Now, while logged in, I'm going to go to the "scm-ninja" username,
so the URL would be "github.com/scm-ninja", press enter.
Now find the starter-web repository; click on the name of the repository.
And now, at this point, we are not associated with this repository in any way,
nor are we a part of this organization; however, since this repository is a public repository,
we can fork this repository and make contributions, and later on submit pull requests
to potentially have those contributions accepted into this repository.
Let's start off by making a copy of this repository
into our personal space by using the forking mechanism.
Go over to the top right-hand side, and click on the fork button.
This will automatically make a copy of this repository into your personal space.
Once you land back on your personal space on GitHub,
which you know by having your username here at the top,
and then you should have "starter-web", which is this repository,
and immediately underneath that you should have text that says
"forked from", and the "scm-ninja/starter-web" repository.
If we click on that link, that takes us back to the repository from which we forked.
From this point forward, I'm going to refer to this repository as my upstream repository
or our parent repository, since this is where we forked from.
I'm going to use my browser’s back button, and that will return me back
to my copy of the "starter-web" repository.